[DOCS-622] Create dedicated prometheus guide for each context. (#6810)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/docker/prometheus.md

---
title: Docker Prometheus and OpenMetrics metrics collection
kind: documentation
further_reading:
    - link: 'logs/log_collection'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Collect your logs'
    - link: '/infrastructure/process'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Collect your processes'
    - link: 'tracing'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Collect your traces'
    - link: developers/prometheus
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Write your own custom Prometheus Check'
---

Collect your exposed Prometheus and OpenMetrics metrics from your application running inside your containers by using the Datadog Agent, and the [Datadog-OpenMetrics][1] or [Datadog-Prometheus][2] integrations.

## Overview

Starting with version 6.5.0, the Agent includes [OpenMetrics][3] and [Prometheus][4] checks capable of scraping Prometheus endpoints. Datadog recommends using the OpenMetrics check since it is more efficient and fully supports Prometheus text format. For more advanced usage of the `OpenMetricsCheck` interface, including writing a custom check, see the [Developer Tools][5] section. Use the Prometheus check only when the metrics endpoint does not support a text format.

> This page explains the basic usage of these checks, enabling you to import all your prometheus exposed metrics within Datadog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains the basic usage of these checks, enabling you to import all your Prometheus exposed metrics within Datadog.
```

## Setup

### Installation

> Launch the Docker Agent next to you other containers by replacing `<DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the API key for your organisation in the command below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Launch the Docker Agent next to your other containers by replacing `<DATADOG_API_KEY>` with the API key for your organization in the command below:
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Standard" %}}

```shell
DOCKER_CONTENT_TRUST=1 \
docker run -d -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
              -v /proc/:/host/proc/:ro \
              -v /sys/fs/cgroup/:/host/sys/fs/cgroup:ro \
              -e DD_API_KEY="<DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
              datadog/agent:latest
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Amazon Linux version <2" %}}

```shell
DOCKER_CONTENT_TRUST=1 \
docker run -d --name dd-agent -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
                              -v /proc/:/host/proc/:ro \
                              -v /cgroup/:/host/sys/fs/cgroup:ro \
                              -e DD_API_KEY="<DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
                              datadog/agent:latest
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

**Note**: add `DD_SITE=datadoghq.eu` if you are using Datadog EU site.

### Configuration

> The Agent detects if it's running on Docker and automatically searches all containers labels for Datadog-OpenMetrics labels. Autodiscovery expects labels to look like these examples, depending on the file type:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Agent detects if it's running on Docker and automatically searches all container labels for Datadog-OpenMetrics labels. Autodiscovery expects labels to look like these examples, depending on the file type:
```

| `<PROMETHEUS_ENDPOINT>`                  | URL for the metrics served by the container, in Prometheus format.                                                                                                                                             |
| `<NAMESPACE>` | Set namespace to be prefixed to every metric when viewed in Datadog.                                                                                                                                           |
| `<METRIC_TO_FETCH>`                      | Prometheus metrics key to be fetched from the Prometheus endpoint.                                                                                                                                             |
| `<NEW_METRIC_NAME>`                      | Optional parameter which, if set, transforms the `<METRIC_TO_FETCH>` metric key to `<NEW_METRIC_NAME>` in Datadog. If you choose not to use this option, pass a list of strings rather than `key:value` pairs. |

**Note**: See the [sample openmetrics.d/conf.yaml][6] for all available configuration options.

## Getting started

### Simple metric collection

> Here is a simple getting started to collect metrics exposed by your Prometheus running within a contrainer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with collecting metrics exposed by Prometheus running within a container, follow these steps:
```

1. Launch the Datadog Agent:

    ```shell
    DOCKER_CONTENT_TRUST=1 \
    docker run -d -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro \
                  -v /proc/:/host/proc/:ro \
                  -v /sys/fs/cgroup/:/host/sys/fs/cgroup:ro \
                  -e DD_API_KEY="<DATADOG_API_KEY>" \
                  datadog/agent:latest
    ```

> 2. To launch Prometheus in a container, the command [from the prometheus documentation][7] is: `docker run -p 9090:9090 prom/prometheus`. In order to notify the Agent to query this container with the openmetrics check we need to add the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To launch Prometheus in a container, run: `docker run -p 9090:9090 prom/prometheus`. In order to notify the Agent to query this container with the OpenMetrics check, add the following configuration:
```

i dont think we need to cite our sources

    ```shell
    -l com.datadoghq.ad.check_names='["openmetrics"]' -l com.datadoghq.ad.init_configs='[{}]' -l com.datadoghq.ad.instances='[  {"prometheus_url":"http://%%host%%:%%port%%/metrics","namespace":"documentation_example_docker","metrics":[ {"promhttp_metric_handler_requests_total": "prometheus.handler.requests.total"}]}]'
    ```

>      To launch the prometheus container with the right annotations for autodiscovery to work run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     To launch the Prometheus container with the right annotations for Autodiscovery to work, run:
```
